h1. How To Lose Friends and Alienate People

bq. Even though I no longer have a beard, I'm still Aaron Colunsusma(sp?)

* Accidental Leader Phenomenon
* They're from *subversion*!  _Take every word with a grain of salt!_
* Classical management Works great for managing morons, works poorly for managing creative people.

*What does it mean to be a good leader?*

h2. Antipatterns

h3. Treat people like children

* Story about trust equating to responsibility
* Google doesn't treat people like kids.

h3. Micromanage

* Co-dependence.
** If you're gone for a day, they'll do nothing.

h3. Hire pushovers

* Hire people who are dumber than you
** They can't supercede you later.
** Just because you're the leader doesn't mean you have to be the smartest person in the room
* Story about hiring pushovers
** Dude hired people smarter than him
** Had less to do because of it daily.

h3. Compromise when hiring

* Hire 10 engineers
** Interview 50
** Take the top 10 regardless of an objective lower bound

h3. Ignore low performers

* Give people too many chances
** Document evidence if necessary
** You'll lose your best people if you keep the stragglers
* *Set an objective velocity for team members, and hold employees to it.*

bq. People are a giant pile of intermittent bugs

h3. Compliment Sandwich

* Happy with your work
* Your code has been bad and sucks
* But I like your glasses

Be Straightforward.

h2. Patterns

* Guy who was technically strong, everything was a battle
* Pick your battles

h3. Be a Zen master

* Guide people to find answers themselves
* Don't solve people's problems for them

h3. Lose the ego

* You don't need it
* Trust the boots on the ground
* Accept criticism
* Apologize
* Humility != Passivity

h3. Get your hands dirty

* Builds team trust/empathy

h3. Delegate

* Let people figure it out even though it will take a lot longer

h3. Look to replace yourself

* Let people who are capable of leading lead

bq. At the time you most want to make waves, is the time when you're not making waves

h3. Shield your team from Bureaucracy

* They don't need to know because their morale will suffer

h3. Succeed and fail as a team

* Public praise
* Private criticism
* Don't single people out publicly in a success or a failure

h3. Be a teacher and mentor

* Assimilate people
* Hook people up with good people

h3. Set Goals

* Make sure everyone agrees on the roadmap
* You can point to it when you're getting drive-by-managed or derailed

h3. Track Happiness

* Figure out what people are considering for their career future
* "What do you need?"
* Rotate crap tasks with fun tasks like chores

* People are like plants
** Some need more light
** Some need more water
** Some need more bullshit

Direct people until they're self-sufficient.

h2. Intrinsic vs. Extrinsic Motivations

* Extrinsic motivations don't work
** Help you if you succeed, hurt you if your fail
* Intrinsic motivations are good
** Allow people to have autonomy
*** Coming in on own schedule
*** 20% time like Google's done
*** It's all about trust unless it negatively effects others
** Mastery
*** Companies look for the sharp knife
*** Grind it against the sidewalk
*** Throw it away and look for a new one
*** Hire knives that may not be the sharpest, but have potential sharpness
*** Give them a chance to sharpen themselves

h2. Managing your manager

* How to make yourself easier to manage
* Improve relations with your manager

# Act like a grown-up
** Encourage people to take responsibility
# Pursue Responsibility
** Cut down the tree like you're told
** But also come up with a plan to cut down the whole forest.
# Allow Mistakes
# Communicate
# Point out problems
# *Argue!*

h2. Take-away

# Serve your team
# Respect People
# Motivate People
