h1. OSCON 2010

I'm rather excited about the prospect of *OSCON*.  It's about to begin.

Last night, I went to "Le Pigeon":http://www.lepigeon.com/, which was a very
nice restaurant.  I will probably be going back even though I dropped over $70
the first time.  I had 2 glasses of Pinot Noir from Cottonwood Winery in the
Willamette Valley.  I'm not sure of the year, but it was the "Marina
Piper":http://www.cottonwoodwinery.com/blog/our-wines/2005-marina-piper-pinot-noir/.

For a starter, I had the Elk Heart, which was served with wonderfully cooked
brocolli and parmesean cheese.  The heart was sliced very thin, and tasted like
extremely tender venison.  It was glorious.

The next course was Duck with figs, leeks, and potatoes.  It had a wonderful
sauce with it that complemented the duck prefectly.  The figs were cooked in
said sauce as well, which gave them a rich flavor to go with their tangy
flavor and seedy texture.  The duck itself was sliced rather thinly, and
reminded me of duck confit.  It handled more like steak than duck - it was not
stringy whatsoever, and tasted wonderful.  I can definitely recommend it.

To finish, I had the Fois Gras Prefiterole, which was also outstanding.  The
fried dough complemented the Fois Gras sandwiched in-between perfectly, and
the Fois Gras had a wonderful texture and taste.  Very buttery and sweet, but
they also added salt which I consider 100% necessary for this dish.

Overall, well-done, Le Pigeon!  I will be back!

I also met "Mark Pickering":http://www.storyofthesand.com/Home_Page.html, an
author.  He was seated next to me at dinner (at the bar), and we struck up a
rather long conversation about various topics.  He seemed to be a really nice
guy - I might have to buy his book.

After all that, I stumbled down to "The Lucky Lab":http://www.luckylab.com/
for a drink.  I had the Super Dog, which was totally awesome.  One was enough
- and there were barely any people in there, probably because it was Sunday
  night.  Overall, a good first day back in Portland.

Time to get ready for the morning Tutorials.
